Objectives for workout repository:
Learn the strengths and weaknesses of a frontend with a framework-free architecture. hopefully this will allow me insight into finding JavaScript's own capabilities without the restrictions(pro or con) of framework dependencies. I am sure that there are certain capabilities within JavaScript which were exempt from other framework designs and their implementations; these exemptions were probably purposefully withheld because of their packages overall weight and size, and usually for their framework's overall personality and its engineered architectural prototype. Notwithstanding, i wish to learn the integral internal machinations of Javascript and of Web Components specifically. To be sure, with the proper intentions coupled with a dedicated and concentrated effort, I believe if a developer truly desires to build quality applications which are engineered to harness the full capabilities of the software from which they were born, and that this artist-engineer must endeavor to wield the tool of his craft ambitiously and curiously; driven to obtain a relationship with that tool until a oneness or a unifying communion is manifested between himself and the mechanism that empowers and offers him the dynamo of enablement. Think about it, without the tool, a builder is basically useless for the task at hand. I've often articulated to past employees of mine this parable(not purposefully plagiarizing for I'm confident many have concluded and demonstrated this same affirmations): "A builder or Artist is never any better than his tools of enablement, too, which hopefully are in his possession". I believe Babe Ruth fell in love with his baseball bat, and Arnold Palmer his golf club. Michael Angelo studied his colors and brushes no doubt, until he could use them to express his visions without any restrictions by incompetency or by a  lack of knowledge of his tools which are his intimate enablers: the colors and paints, the art board, and his cherished brushes. Anyway, I'm communicating with myself so as to grab the loins of  my mind and adding determination to manually squeeze and open up my brain to expose its brain-matter to understand  the price of accepting what it will take to succeed,  and the energy that must be expended to achieve this goal. The goal of understanding JavaScript and the art of wielding its powers of creation. Exposing myself to its vocabulary until both our languages together become one;  wielding the powers of JavaScript as if they were my own.  The capabilities of JavaScript are useless on their own, and the imaginations of software engineering splendor are but a dream with esoteric proportions, without a union. A routing, if you will, of the two vehicles needed for useful accomplishment. JavaScript and Developer becoming one, together manipulating and creating that perfect application.


Based upon the desire to fully understand the language of JavaScript and to search out its powers and potentialities, this miniature dissertation is an investigative journey; exploring and implementation of JavaScript's own Native capabilities in rendering AESTHETICALLY PLEASING and dynamical USER-INTERFACES, smartly utilizing event-driven,  asynchronous interoperability between BACKEND SERVER ARCHITECTURE with hydration and population of the data-stream incorporating a NoSQL, Mongoose guided  document for strict document mapping including schema aperture modeling and database implementations. All application units are smartly decoupled while demonstrating a simplistic usability, expressively representing a unified singleness in application, revealing one tightly-knit-entity. Application adherence to the event-driven  state and the state-management protocols achieving a seamless state of the state management controlling event-driven progressions.


This probably all sounds insane OK. So what? You have your special way of self-motivation and I have mine: Man, I just wish I had this revelation years ago; back when static was all the site you were going to create. I'd of been quantitatively better prepared for this everything-is-possible awakening I am experiencing right now. Now, great-googly-moogely, the infinite far reaches of the Internet and your imagination are the limitations and the boundaries: hold on a minute, not so fast! I take the period back and insert a colon after boundaries. You know what else is needed besides an endless Internet and an abounding imagination? A quantifiable tool in the hands of a consummate craftsman who's a skillful wielder of that tool. Someone who's exceptionally read and knowledgeable of JavaScript and its use-cases. Someone willing to cross the boundaries of a frameworks short-term answer to the problem(not knocking needful frameworks as tools which enhance team project productivity, but focusing on the individual developer "his growth and his skill in wielding JavaScript!), developing the skills of JavaScript's "good-parts", and the "POWERFUL PONTENTIAL" of JavaScript in the right hands; wielded by a true software engineer( no room for "Impostor-Syndrome here Jacky ). A developer with a desire to really know how it works deep down into the very fabric of its "Object  and Prototypical asynchronous truths".  Harboring the goal of becoming that engineer who is urgently sought after for his passion and expertise, but more importantly an individual who knows who they are. One with a hard-earned knowledge who's capable of professionally offering their truly wise and corroborated advice; having paid the dues which are necessary in achieving JavaScript Skills capable of wielding a Powerful extra-human dynamo earning  the respect of the industry's 'movers' and also those progressive types who can not help but gravitate toward and desire the friendship and working relationship of! Because? Because the  like-minded usually congregate together: forming that perfect developmental union, OK! 
 

Hours and hundreds of hours sums the price to become a skilled, wielding craftsman able to express their very engineer-fashioned vision with the tool they've learned and earned to use. Wielding their skills almost without effort to the onlooker it seems, though to the wielder, oh, they know the price and duty performed. Hours and hours of ingestion and getting, and setting the fetch of their desire to truly know JavaScript; and to know it by giving, and to know it altruistically by design! The well known proverb of old insinuates receiving what you gave: the patented advice for all, but only realized by the few who have actually earned its respect. Give and you shall receive is the developer's advice to the developer. Notwithstanding, stand up like the real, true person you are,  admit it. Oh no, this is not negative! It is totally the opposite. Positiveness in understanding  that  receiving the truthful, and the necessary advice opens the door to receive what is hungered and dreamed after. Totally positive without the stressful, anxious, and instability of being an unknown. 


What I know?  I know that if i try with all my heart and fully engage the dream of being a truly skilled JavaScript craftsman and give my time and energy to that end, I'll get back that which was sought after, and probably more! I can do it! The one thing about "CODING" that I've discovered is this, it is hard and seemingly impossible, to the average beginner, to learn! It is amazingly difficult and actually changes one's mental processes and in approaching logic: especially creates in the software student the causal and definitive ability in multi-tasking and in branching divers paths of thought. Notwithstanding, the average person with enough input and desire, can achieve a career in development. Sure, there are those super smart individuals who excel at certain math and IT type occupations along with software development. Their path, if the energy is put forth, will probably lead them and grow them positions other than just software development. Not always OK, I'm just trying to get across this fact: the average learned student who desires growth and gives the proper energy to achieve this task, will grow in mind and mental strength, achieving and far surpassing their capabilities at the start of their reaching. A professor of literature who I befriended, and who was a true friend who with honest transparency wanted to educate the less fortunate and instil in them the self-confidence, or at the very least, a motivation to go for it. Because he knew and took the time to know the human side of his students.  He knew their humanity and along with humanity came an ever enduring human quality found in most: this is the ability to rise above the normal and achieve the set goal if the proper amount of energy, desire, input, and time are given to obtaining this goal. The human being has the intrinsic ability of learning, and excelling at what ever they set their minds upon doing; if one wants something bad enough he'll get it and nothing can stop them. Coding is hard! If it weren't so, and a lot of energy, time, and determination weren't necessary, the average annual salary of a coder would be comparable and would probably be $30,000 annually. Thank our love for coding that it is hard. Thank goodness the similitude of the cover of this book about being a coder is one which could honestly be judged by its honest representation of facts: it's hard to code, hard as __ll folks!  And, think about this, especially and the start. But, after a devotee assimilates their mind-state, which occurs automatically, by receiving an accumulative sum of knowledge,  solely gained through  familiarity(the fact their being present on site to learn). After a certain passing of time one gets used to their environment and also gleans artifacts of his surrounding almost naturally with human instinct. Certainly, with exerted effort this happens much quicker. What is being said is this, the average person, with enough desire to code, can do it and surprise all, even one's self, in the achievement.  


I said all that to say this, I want to know how JavaScript works under the hood. I'd like to know how the so resourceful framework called React works. It's just JavaScript. Probably utilizing a Functional style of programming and certainly taking advantage of JavaScript's powerful “Object” and Prototypical centric   orientation at the core of its foundation. Everything's an OBJECT! WOW. A Function can be a first class citizen in JavaScript. If you're accustom with defining type from a lower level software tool like Java or C#, even C++ in your developing journey and want to include type in your approach to learning JavaScript you can always utilize TypeScript.


With JavaScript a developer can almost have his cake and eat the icing too. Wow, it's a wonderful development tool. I perceive that most software programming languages are fun and awesome in their own right. Heck, I remember Q-Basic was awesome. Oh, the stuff I accomplished with VBA, Visual Basic for Application in MS OFFICE 95!! I had so much fun with OFFICE95 back in 1995. I owned an electronics store in 1995 and started building computers to sell for about a year before Windows95 made its debut. Windows95 changed all of us DOS superstars by leveling the playing field to the less knowledgeable. Now, just about anyone with a little sense could copy or move a directory visually. I loved DOS and for almost two years after Windows95 came out the first thing I'd do to my system or any system I was working on, would be to have it boot-up to the C-Prompt.  Absolutely no one could tell me that  I couldn't traverse and manipulate the operating system faster  from C-Prompt than from with the encapsulated, memory hungry environment and the Box container called Windows95.  Well, I learned it anyway because I would have to teach my customers how to use the new computer that I had built for them. Oh, the fun of those days!! Nobody knew computers or even how to click on something. It really has changed hasn't it? Now they're clicking iPads in their diapers before they can even walk, lol.


I sold an office full of computers to an elderly Lawyer whose wife took a liking to me, I think for her young secretary's sake:  just my attempt at humor, but I don't hear anybody laughing?  Anyway, suggestively I ended up creating a common UI for every networked workstation in the office. I networked five computers, cat-five tied them altogether(no WiFi in those days..) Had to handle the routing and network protocols, and I was a busy learning. Hey, I knew how to check IC, resistors, Vertical and Horizontal Outputs in TV's and solder in the 8-pin timer-oscillator IC in an ESR 324 Earth Station Satellite Receiver. I could install a  Satellite System, I'm talking twelve footers, with my eyes closed. Loved reading electrical schematics and repairing stuff. But nothing equaled my passion for computers. I loved my ole 8088, I maybe had 256k ram or something. When ram achieved 1meg in size I was amazed. Moving along, I bought a book on networking, and learning  LAN's oh, it's a Local Area Network, which is smaller usually than a WAN, a Wide Area Network. The book had all this network jargon I had to learn along with protocols etc... My head was exploding. I connected the five together via the local router I installed, created a virtual-server via a seldom used workstation in the office va la, Houston we have Lift-Off! I was patting myself on the back for a job well learned, had a check in my hand, and felt excited that the average person would eventually purchase a computer.

 I was looking up, until Mrs. Pappas grabbed me as I was leaving the front door of her office. Hey Gordon, you can't leave me now honey, she was about 72 years old and her husband, Mr, Pappas, had been a leading Lawyer in town for 50 years. He'd look my way every so often and snarl at me the uselessness of a computer in this office. I'd smile at him at humor him. He eventually toted how constructive and efficient the computer workstations had made his Law Office. 

Mrs. Pappas looked at me with these pitiful eyes which were calling out “HELP ME PLEASE!” very softly, but were the eyes which manipulated me in the end. “What am I going to do now Gordon? You've installed these machines, that Big ole printer, and somehow these computers can receive faxes, and we can't use them darling. What do I do Gordon?  Well, I hadn't really thought that far ahead yet because I never really thought it until then. As far as I was concerned, my job was to build and install the computers and Network the Office and computers together, and then I'm outta there. 


Not so fast buddy!! I looked into her pleading eyes again this time  and asked her her plans. She had a college student that helped the office in the afternoons after school; and she was capable with computers. Man, did she used to give me a hard time on the literature I wrote and created for the office: still believe she was flirting with me. 


 I created  workstations that would eventually print out legal quality documents using MS Word templates I created for re-usability:  templates of Court Briefs, Discovery, Interrogatories, Setting of Trial, well over a couple hundred different documents just to even  get started.  What they needed for everyday use added up to well over five hundred templates. Templates created with form controls for re-usable and repetitive operations: a noteworthy point to make considers the critical nature of legal documents. Every line and mark, uppercase and lowercase, special symbology (took me forever just finding certain symbols that qualified for usage. Even had to recreate and generate certain unattainable symbology that couldn't be found nor purchased. I believe I remember using my CAD software to create these legal symbols.


 Remember too, in 1995 the internet was helpful up to a point, a real small point at that. It was nothing in comparison with today's accumulated information highway. Oh yeah, it was called that way back then, but for actual productive usefulness, it wasn't very helpful. Furthermore, I supplied and installed a full copy of Microsoft's Office95 on each workstation. Way back then I even study, took the necessary course outline and became a Certified Microsoft OEM Distributor. I had the power to produce and sell Microsoft Software from my own CDRW_REWRITABLE Disc-Drive and distribute serial numbers given to me from Microsoft. This enabled my company to build computer systems and have the same manufacturing privileges and capabilities equal, for example,  to a Dell or even the Acer Brand systems which were sold at Walmart(still are I believe). I had big dreams of creating a computer manufacturing and software company which could even go 'public' someday. 

Ah, but a man's reach should exceed his grasp, Or what's a heaven for?
      										Robert Browning 


 Let's see, there was MS Word, MS Excel, MS Access, it had a program called Binder that enabled me to collect different Office files and bundle them into one file. I used this Binder religiously and years down the road, not far down really, Office97 to be exact, they discontinued the binder in the Office97 bundle. I was furious. It was one of the most useful tools in the bundle to me. I was able to create and bundle certain associated template file collections and organize them into a usable and organized collection and from which the program,  my company developed, could  render an editable version of a legal document that would be acceptable to the court. Oh the painstaking details in creating templates that the courts would find acceptable. The local law offices and even the courts still were using typewriter generated legal motions and the such and didn't know how or if to even accept a computer fashioned document. Oh, they he-hawed a little, and we had to change a few templates, but they finally agreed accepting the change coalescing the two different variants of documents. It definitely sped-up the Pappas' Law Office order of doing things. Looking back, I didn't particularly realize that I was operating on the cusp of change  the internet and personal computers were bringing to the world. Thinking upon this period now I realize I was associated with being a participant the courts admittance of the first computer generated legal documentation from a Law Firm in Barbour County Alabama and in the Municipality of Eufaula, Alabama. I had created the templates used in their creation and made of such a quality the courts could not refuse their admittance. I'm proud of that. 

Proud of studying and researching what it would take in creating an application that would become a qualified, usable, and intuitive software application. Furthermore, the simplistic user-interfacing and the painstaking attention to detail in creating reusable templates that generate certifiable court accepted legal documentation as taught me about several developmental actualities that persist even today. And the experience also brought to bare the lessons of human possibilities when given the chance through opportunity, by applying them when truthy the  probabilities together  are therefore believed in and consequentially finally utilized. 


 Oh I was mad. Anyway, I need to hurry this story along and finish it mercifully for your sake. Mrs.  Pappas, with those real sad help me eyes asked me how to implement the computers use case for their Law Firm. I felt real sick in my stomach all the sudden as I realized the implication being made. I was a lowly electronics technician that happened to own a small business which helped the average citizen with their normal civilian electronics's needs. I was up and hip with all the regular stuff. Satellites, TV's, VCR's, and just started in the computer business the year before. But, I was just building small computer systems for my usual customers to start off with. I had a friend who's brother worked in a larger city's electronic supply house who started building them in college. I bought a lot of transistors, resistors, etc from Carmichael's out of Dothan, Alabama. Antennas and big tall Towers too. I could install all that kind of stuff. I was a young, knowledgeable, ex-sailor, an Operations Specialist in the US Navy. I was a Scope-Dope. I worked in CIC, Combat-Information-Center aboard the USS Estocin, a small Guided-Missile-Frigate.  Back in 1981 I was using a mouse on my Computer/Radar Control Unit I operated. That was years before the personal computer ever thought of using a mouse. We called it a tracking-ball. This CIC had a Captain's Chair that was located directly in the center of the Combat Center and the space stayed deathly cold, about 65', and was dimly lit  with black-lights that gave everything a blue hue. Whoa, how did I get off track talking about my Navy days? Oh yeah, I was informing you on my experience and qualifications in support of my qualifications and work responsibilities. And as my stomach literally sank into my groins and my mouth got real dry as I searched my inner database to muster up a reply I''m sorry, but I'm not qualified to do what you're asking me to do. That's way beyond the scope of my experience and qualifications. She'd have none of that. She looked at me at said, I've seen you work Mr. Gordon, don't tell me that you can't take one of these little machines and make it do whatever you want. Please Gordon, I need your help and there's nobody else I can turn to darling, she would say. But Mrs. Pappas, what you're asking is very complicated, I mean University complicated, that a person goes to college for a Master's Degree in Computer Science Software Engineering. Oh, you're just being humble, and  timid. I know you and have seen how you work and how you put all this together. Gordon, even if I found someone to do this, Mr. Pappas wouldn't give me the money to pay them, you know that, it would cost me $30,000 and you know it. To be sure, in those days and to develop the software she needed to accomplish this office's mission, she wasn't far off the amount. Not many people knew anything of software development around there that I knew of anyway. Maybe up in Auburn University near Opelika, Alabama. There was a small Troy State University Branch about 50 miles away, maybe some students could source it out. Mrs. Pappas would have none of that and crazy, jump in with both feet, me ole Gordie said I guess I'll help you. I'm not sure what to charge Mrs. Pappas? No worries Gordon, you've always treated us fair. I trust you, plus you'll have access to a lot of critical case documentation, and somebody else would worry the  _  _ LL out of me Gordon. You're the greatest and I'm so thankful. When do you think you'll start and how long will it take you Gordon? How about that, a generous compliment followed in tune with instructions.

 I hadn't made my first swallow my mouth dried out and I was supposed to dedicate my life and have all the answers, immediately. Oh my gosh, what trouble I get myself into. Truthfully, I enjoyed, or better say it this way, on my way back to our shop I thought to myself about how I did enjoy computer stuff. I mean I fell in love with computers, DOS, Windows, database terminology(for I had read some dBase in College from a Text Book because I loved the technical terminology used), Excel formulas, Word, and also thought of Access with which I had never really investigated. I knew it was a data source management program of some sort, but never really played with it yet. I owned a business in Georgetown, Ga, or actually co-owned it with a great friend of mine. He was a TV repair Wiz-Kid who was 18 years older than I was. I was 34 at the time, and had no clue what to do. I had studied a word software program in a college class years before using archaic computers used in educational purposes even  before the 8088 hit the market. Played with programming a Commodore at a local Radio Shack I'd hang out and mess around with stuff. 

I toured with a Rock band after finishing the Navy and for a couple years I toured and played keyboard for the band. I had one of the first affordable polyphonic synthesizers that came out and was excited. It was about 1983 or 84 and Van Halen had just released their only Hit Single up until then called Jump. I was so excited that I could program my KORG Poly-Eight and make it sound just like Eddie's, make my mouth water, 88 key Oppenheimer Synthesizer: man how I wished I had the $30,000 to purchase one of those bad boys! OK, said all that to say I learned to use midi-interface and program a complete library of sounds I used for our stage performances. My KORG Poly-Eight even had red digital numbers. Hey, this was 1983 and that was something. I felt cool and technical, like a smaller version of  Yes's Rick Wakeman who was my idle and by whom I measured my talent or any other keyboardist.

 I remember my good friend Andy Terrell organized a school Gong Show and he knew I played around with the piano a little. He came to me and asked if would or if I could help him out with the Show. I said sure man a little excitedly. I was getting good on my mother's piano, learning Rick Wakeman's style of Rock & Roll with a  Classical touch. I was getting real good. Had a musical background playing Trombone in school, and having piano lessons for a while. I was a little excited and then Andy dropped the bomb, saying that he needed a few contestants that he knew would be Gonged Off. He needed that for sure Gong for the humor affect. My thoughts pictured performing in front of the whole school and fabulously being GONGED off, in front of everyone . I said to myself, “Good-Grief”! “I stuck my proverbial BIG FOOT in my mouth, big time. I felt like killing Andy. He didn't know I was playing and practicing with intent, nor that I was shy, or that my girlfriend would probably dump me after the show.

 Long story short: I practiced as if I were to perform to be accepted by Berkeley in Boston, Mass. I mean I sounded just like Wakeman off Yes's YESSONG Live album, down to a tee. I also threw in some Styx, Claire DE Lune,  a piano piece by Claude Debussy, which was featured on their Pieces of Eight Album, 1978. I was confident and ready. I told Rhonda, my girl friend they'll never Gong me. How could they. She could have cared less about my playing. If I'd of played the electric guitar that would have been a different story, but a piano, I was her little sissy I suspect now looking back, but I was never the sissy type and she just enjoyed tearing me down sometimes. Uh, go figure at 16 and 17 years old. 

Well, they waited for about 45 seconds into my set before they GONGED me! When I heard the first GONG of the show it would have to be mine,  my GONG, dag gonnit. I don't think Rhonda held my hand for the rest of that day; I think! Sounds good anyway for what I remember of it. Oh, and I played in the ship band while I was in the Navy too. Man that helped out there too when “Haze Gray and Underway” in the North Atlantic,  plowing through the epic rough seas found up there. I mean seas that would consistently engulf and hide the bow of the ship underwater, then aimlessly heave up then followed with a pitch and a roll which eventually finds the stern of the ship underwater in the same condition, waiting to lurch up with a roar that only nature can produce. That's scary!
